UDY WOODRUFF: Now another in
our conversations with winners
of the 2015 National Book
Awards. dam Johnson, a
professor of creative writing at
Stanford and a 2012 Pulitzer
winner, won the fiction category
for his collection of stories,
"Fortune Smiles." effrey Brown
talked with him recently at the
Miami Book Fair, starting with a
question about the appeal of
writing short stories.ADAM
JOHNSON, National Book Award
Winner: I love the short story.
aving written two novels in a
row, I missed the power of the
short story. To me, a short
story is like a battery that can
store emotion and just charge
you up directly with it, and it
can hold emotion for as long as
you want and then transmit it.
have always loved research. I
have always loved going out into
the world and finding a twin for
what's going on inside me. Maybe
technology's part of that.
EFFREY BROWN: So, what starts
a story for you?ADAM JOHNSON:
I have learned over the years to
trust my obsessions.JEFFREY
BROWN: Obsessions.ADAM
JOHNSON: When I get obsessed
about Nirvana songs, listening
to them over and over, or buying
mauri dade (ph) over the
Internet late at night and
running up my eBay bill, it
usually means it's connected to
something inside. And I won't
know what it is until I put that
obsession into a story. EFFREY
BROWN: Mm-hmm. And does it come
quickly once you start? DAM
JOHNSON: These stories came very
quickly.You know, when you're
writing a novel, and it takes
years, there are all these
beautiful tempting stories that
come along and they say, write
me. Oh, no, quit your novel.
That's hard work. It might fail.
Come write me. I'm alluring.
And...(LAUGHTER)ADAM
JOHNSON: But you have got to say
no to those.JEFFREY BROWN: You
have a personal relationship
with these stories, huh?ADAM
JOHNSON: That's the devil
talking, because you must
complete your novel and the long
journey.And when I was done, I
couldn't wait to go write some
stories.JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
And once you start, is there a
lot of chiseling that goes into
them? How crafted are -- no.
DAM JOHNSON: I would say,
rather than drafting, it's more
about discovering.I write
scene by scene, and I think, I
want to get my character to this
point. I want to get my
characters to the bedroom. I
want to get my characters toward
the appearance of the first
hologram. And then I just -- I
have to really ponder and think
about what is going to happen
next. think contemporary
fiction is very closely related
to improvisational jazz. The
jazz musician has a tradition,
has a talent, has some concerns.
It's in conversation. But he or
she doesn't know what the song
is going to be. It appears
before them.JEFFREY BROWN: The
first story, called "Nirvana,"
involves holograms, involves new
technology. There, you had to do
a different kind of research, I
assume. DAM JOHNSON: Well,
just -- I just had to look
around me.JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
DAM JOHNSON: I live in San
Francisco, and I work in Silicon
Valley and there are
self-driving cars. And on
Stanford campus, there will be
flying solar-powered autonomous
things zipping around, or things
that balance on one wheels that
students are making.JEFFREY
BROWN: And yet we're still
human, right, which is part of
what comes through in the story.
DAM JOHNSON: That's exactly
it. And what is it going to mean
to have holograms in our lives?
ou know, Josephine Baker is
going on tour next year.
EFFREY BROWN: Yes, you're
talking -- the great singer
FMDNMOØlong dead, but is going on
tour through a hologram.ADAM
JOHNSON: Long dead. That's
right.(CROSSTALK) EFFREY
BROWN: And that triggers
something for you.ADAM
JOHNSON: People are going to
fill auditoriums, because the
tickets have already sold out
for the premiere performances,
because they love her.And it
doesn't matter. As long as the
human voice is there, I think it
doesn't matter that it -- she's
just made of light. EFFREY
BROWN: But that's weird, right?
I mean, it's strange. DAM
JOHNSON: Well...JEFFREY BROWN:
She's made of light, and people
are going to see a dead -- long
dead singer perform. That sounds
like an Adam Johnson story,
actually. CROSSTALK)ADAM
JOHNSON: Do we not look at a
television and respond
profoundly to cinema and to good
TV? And those people are made of
light.JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
hen you and I talked after you
wrote "The Orphan Master's Son"
set in North Korea, you said --
I just went back to look at that
interview. You said to me, when
I asked you, why North Korea,
"It seemed, as a writer, that
this was perhaps the most
difficult place on earth to be
fully human." hat goes just to
what we are talking about,
right, this idea of being fully
human, even amid technological
change, natural disasters,
torture.ADAM JOHNSON: That's
right. Right. s the state of
being human eternal, as we think
of it throughout the history of
our evolution, or is it mutable?
You know, I'm not really sure.
As a fiction writer, the thing
I'm scared of the most is phones
in stories. What does it do to
tension, inertia, momentum,
information management if one
character at any moment can
share anything at a distance
privately with another
character?What does it do to
brooding, building, withholding,
with human confrontation,
conflict, with revelation, if
that's all subverted through
technology? EFFREY BROWN: All
right, the National Book Award
Winner for Fiction, Adam Johnson
for his book "Fortune Smiles."
ongratulations, and thanks.
DAM JOHNSON: Well, thank you.